In our last lecture, we saw how we could able to build a super simple chat experience with a user logo.
And and there is an icon for the assistant.
And also we saw there was a glitch where if you ask an question and then if you ask a follow up question
or maybe a second question, it just overrides the existing chat messages.
And the reason why this is happening is because we have not really built that that experience within
our code yet, and also we should not be clearing up the chat history every single time.
If there is already any chat history message in the session state array that we have got right.
So we have to somehow write that particular logic over here.
So I'm going to cut this particular piece of code.
I'm going to move this outside.
I mean from outside of this prompt over here and over here, I'm going to say if there is already an
existing chat history Then don't clean it up.
So only if there is a only.
If there is no message in the st dot uh session state, then you can clean it up.
If there is already a message, don't clean it up.
That is what I'm going to do over here.
And also uh, and also I'm going to write a for loop over here because now you're not going to clean
it up, but you need to print.
Or maybe you need to keep the existing message there, which is uh, which is going to be coming below
the existing message that you have got.
So you have to print that below the next message that you have got.
So I'm going to say for message in St dot session state dot chat history.
So we have got the message over there and I'm saying with St dot chat message.
Right I'm gonna get the message and I'm going to get the role.
And I'm also going to get the markdown over here.
So this is where I'm going to be printing the content that I'm going to be getting out from that particular
message.
So this is, this is this is very, very important because if you don't really have that particular,
this particular stuff, then your new message will not be printed below the earlier question that you
have asked.
So I hope that makes sense.
So this is the first foremost thing that we have to do over here for our code to work.
So now let's say if I'm going to run the code and I'm going to ask, hi, how are you doing?
You'll see that we get a response.
And I'm going to ask, how's uh, how's weather in NZ?
And you will notice that this weather information question that we have asked is going to be Answered
below the first question that we have got.
So it's not going to override the existing question, but it is going to print that down below over
here.
So this is how things are going to happen over here.
So this is this particular piece of code is very very important to make that happen.
Right.
And now we can also ask a follow up question.
Uh, how about uh, India.
So now I'm asking pretty much like a follow up question for the first question, the earlier question
that I have asked.
So let's see.
Uh, there we go.
So it says India is a diverse, vast country, blah, blah, blah.
So it's just getting, uh, giving us the details of the India over there.
But now the first, the most important thing that we need to do is the session history that we need
to maintain in our chat, because it's not really happening at the moment.
So how do we actually do that?
Well, guess what, I am going to do a few more coding over here.
The first important coding that I wanted to do is the the the session ID that I'm actually passing in.
Right.
So let me cut this session ID from here.
I'm going to put it all the way on the top.
Just this one.
And over here I'm going to get the session ID from the user.
So I'm going to say session ID which is going to be coming from St dot text input.
And I'm going to get uh the session ID from there.
So but at the moment I'm just going to print the session ID, which is the default session ID is going
to be Karthik for now.
But later on we are going to improve.
I mean, you can override the Karthik from the UI so that it can be printed as well.
That session ID can be printed as well, right?
So if I'm going to stop this and if I run this, you will notice that we will have, we will have like
something like a Karthik over there.
Maybe instead of that, because it looks like this UI has got like Karthik over here and doesn't really
give me any information there.
So I can just uh, add this probably as I enter your name.
Something like that.
Enter your name, uh, like this and session ID and now if I try to run this, it may be, it may be
a bit more for better.
Right.
Enter your name.
And I have just given the the name as Karthik over here, but you can override this particular, uh,
name from there on.
So now that we have fixed this issue of the chat, uh, which is going to be coming up in the, in the
history and how it is going to be showing up, the follow up, uh, questions over there.
The last piece of puzzle that we are going to be doing is in our next lecture is going to be how we
can actually start a new conversation.
And also we can maintain the session information across our chat in the chatbot.